November 1, 2016

Hi!

NeurotechUofT's Workshops and Biosignals Board teams have been particularly busy lately.

Our workshops are designed for current and potential club members who are interested in developing their knowledge of technical concepts (e.g. computer programming, hardware fundamentals, etc.) used in the club's projects. The workshops are generally structured around small, hands-on projects that are related to NeurotechUofT's existing work.

The objective of the current project is to record muscle signals from one individual, process the data and apply those signal ouputs to another individual, hence making the person on the receiving end execute the same muscle movements. In the fall term of this academic year, the workshops will be designed around this mini-project. In the winter term, these workshops will be incorporated into regular club activities.

Work on the mini-project currently consists of sourcing necessary materials and designing the schematics of the circuit board that will be needed for the overall product. In November, testing of the board will begin.

The biosignals board team aims to engineer a device capable of reading EEG signals from an individual, processing the signal data, and converting it in such a way that it is able to be sent as input to other devices, thereby enabling human control over them. This device will be tested in the upcoming NeurotechX competition.

The chip being used for this project is called the NeuroSky Brainwave EEG: TGAM chip. So far, the team has completed a circuit diagram to organize the chip's connection to Arduino. Work on the chip continues - wires have been soldered on, the circuit has been connected and the team is working on debugging before dry electrodes can be attached and the chip to Arduino connection is finalized.

Thank you for reading!

September 4, 2016

Hello there!

The team has started the Mindfulness Study - a research endeavour that observes different meditation techniques and documents the corresponding biofeedback of study participants. The aim of this study is to create and optimize a program that will allow a user to progress into a meditative state. Brainwave data, blood oxygenation levels, etc. are used to form a picture of individual's mental state, which helps the user meditate better.

The Wall-EEG mind controlled bot is able to obtain and graph signals from the OpenBCI but noise is still an issue. It has been noticed that the source of the noise is improper electrode-to-skin contact. Furthermore, the OpenBCI GUI processes much better than our team's code. What remains to be done is studying the OpenBCI GUI to find out what processing techniques are used before we start working to improve our own code. We are almost done choosing a technique, and are in the process of testing it in real time.

Thanks for reading!
