January 24, 2017

TL;DR:
- We will be presenting the VitReous project at the WeAreWearables conference on January 25th
- There is an upcoming field trip to the IBBME Medical Imaging Lab on February 2nd
- Our first neurotech conference will be held on February 23rd
- We'll first be doing a trial run with a land-based bot before working on the aerial drone

Hello everyone!

It has been a while since our last update, and with the arrival of 2017 comes a new and eventful term for us here at NeurotechUofT. There is a lot to share, so keep reading to get the latest team news!  

One event is rapidly approaching this week: the WeAreWearables conference held at the MaRS Discover District Centre! This Wednesday, January 25th, we will be there to present the VitReous project that was first introduced by our team at NeurotechX Student Demo Day this past November. This will be our first time attending and will mark the first year of many more to come! We can't wait to mix and mingle with other tech enthusiasts and see the newest state-of-the-art wearables projects.

Next comes a field trip on Thursday, February 2nd to the IBBME Medical Imaging Lab which is also located in the MaRS Centre. This lab visit is meant to introduce the NeurotechUofT team to current neuroscience research as well as to develop the team's knowledge of medical imaging technology – a vital tool in research and development in the neuroscience field.

We will be hosting a neurotech conference on Thursday, February 23rd,  during reading week, at which we will have booths and showcases displaying current neurotech projects as well as professors giving talks about neuroscience research and the status of the neurotech industry. This will be followed by a breakout session, during which we will have discussions with invited researchers and companies. We hope to see you there!

As promised, we have news to share about our WallEEG project! Before starting to develop the aerial drone, our software and hardware teams are going to do a trial run of the project on a land-based bot. We have recently acquired one such bot and our work meetings will be starting next weekend. Once we have developed a functioning bot with a secure connection to Emotiv, we will begin working on connecting Emotiv to an aerial drone.

Finally, we are recruiting new team members to fill some executive/administrative team positions. The recruitment form will be shared on this website and our Facebook page shortly, so if you are interested, we encourage you to apply! We are looking forward to meeting all of our new members!

Thanks for staying tuned!
Lidia Injac

December 1, 2016

TL;DR: Two weekends ago we travelled to Montreal to attend Neurotech Demo Day: The Student Edition and had a blast! Now that the biosignals board project has come to a close, we are starting developments on WallEEG: a mind-controlled drone.

Hello everyone!

Two weekends ago our hardware team travelled to Montreal to attend NeurotechX Demo Day: The Student Edition. They had the long-awaited opportunity to showcase the biosignals board project and the VitReous project that had been under construction since the start of this academic year. It was a ton of fun to mix and mingle with other neurotechnology developers and enthusiasts and to learn more about the various projects occurring at other universities. Congratulations to ETS and McGill for their respective wins in parts 1 and 2 of the competition, and many thanks to NeurotechX, Neuroforce, Dejardins, Hexoskin, Muse, OpenBCI and NeuroSky for making this happen!

Now that NeurotechX Demo Day has come and passed, work is set to begin on another project planned for the rest of the school year: WallEEG, a mind-controlled drone! More information about this will be shared as progress is made.

Thanks for keeping up with us!

Lidia Injac

P.S. If you would like to see some photos from the competition, check out our Twitter!

November 9, 2016

Hi all,

With the closing of another week come exciting updates from the hardware and workshops teams at NeurotechUofT!

Developments are underway for the technical workshops coming up next term. These workshops will be structured around work on a mini project that will record muscle signals from one individual and apply them to another individual as a way to mirror muscle movements. At the moment, the team is sourcing materials and designing the schematics of the circuit board that will be needed for this mini project. In November, testing will begin.

The hardware team has also been working hard on the biosignals board project that will be challenged in the NeurotechX competition. The circuit diagram that outlines the chip's connection to Arduino is now complete and the circuit itself has been connected. Debugging is the task at hand before dry electrodes can be attached and the chip to Arduino connection is finalized.

Thanks for reading!

TL;DR: Planning is underway for a mini project that will be the foundation for upcoming workshops. The biosignals board team is working on establishing a secure connection between the TGAM chip and Arduino.

September 4, 2016

Hello there!

The team has started the Mindfulness Study - a research endeavour that observes different meditation techniques and documents the corresponding biofeedback of study participants. The aim of this study is to create and optimize a program that will allow a user to progress into a meditative state. Brainwave data, blood oxygenation levels, etc. are used to form a picture of individual's mental state, which helps the user meditate better.

The Wall-EEG mind controlled bot is able to obtain and graph signals from the OpenBCI but noise is still an issue. It has been noticed that the source of the noise is improper electrode-to-skin contact. Furthermore, the OpenBCI GUI processes much better than our team's code. What remains to be done is studying the OpenBCI GUI to find out what processing techniques are used before we start working to improve our own code. We are almost done choosing a technique, and are in the process of testing it in real time.

Thanks for reading!
